Flower was created to enable large-scale FL experiments with millions of clients and thousands partipating in a round. It was focused on edge devices

It's ML framework-agnostic.

Flower provides support for extending FL implementations to mobile and wireless clients, with heterogeneous compute, memory, and network resources. 

Provides built- in tools to simulate many of these challenging conditions in a cloud environment and allows for a realistic evaluation of FL algorithms.

Measurements about the performance of clientperformance should be able to be easily collected

Clients can use different ML frameworks at the same time.

New algorithms of aggregation can be implemented using the Strategy interface.
Current has FedAvg, FedProx, QFedAvg, FedAdagrad, FedYogi, FedAdam, Fault Tolerant FedAvg. 

Flower is Scalable, Client-agnostic (interoperable with different programming languages, operating systems, and hardware), Communication-agnostic (different serialization and communication approaches), Privacy-agnostic (support common approaches (secure aggregation and differential privacy) but doesn't is prescriptive about their usage. 

Architecture: 
In the server side we have:
A Client Manager, which manages a set of Client proxy objects (each of them represents a single client connected to the server, and are responsible for sending and receiving Flower Protocol messages, Clients which are offline do not have an associated ClientProxy object). 
The FL loop orchestrates the entire leaqrning process, but does not make decisions. Delegating them to the configured strategy. 
The strategy is responsible for configuring the next round of FL and to make the result aggregation. In case of a federated evaluation, the strategy also has to define the evaluation. 

For the client side, it only waits for messages from the server and react to them calling user-provided training and evaluation functions

Virtual Client Engine (VCE): a tool that enables the virtualization of Flower Clients given a pool of clients, their respective compute and memory budgets, and, the FL-specific hyper-
parameters (e.g. number of clients per round). The VCE will schedule, instantiate and run the Flower Clients

Edge Client Engine: Flower provides a low-level integration by directly handling Flower Protocol messages on the client, allowing to use several edge devices as clients. 

The Flower communication protocol is currently implemented on top of bi-directional gRPC but components that are not tied to gRPC are unaware of it.


Flower clients receive instructions (messages) as raw byte arrays (either via the network or throught inter-process communication), deserialize the instruction, and execute the instruction. Flower uniquely serialization-agnostic and enables users to experiment with custom serialization methods

selecting large numbers of clients in each training round does not necessarily translate into faster convergence times. There is a empirical threshold for which if we increase the number of participating clients, the convergence will be slower. 

Flower is faster compared to other frameworks when the epoch are larger or clients. 
